### Homework 6

##### 1. 802.11 and BER  
Suppose that an 11 Mb/s 802.11b LAN is transmitting 65 bytes frames (including all headers, preambles and trailers) back-to-back over a radio channel with a bit error rate of 10^-7. How many frames will be damaged per second on average?

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**



#####  2. 802.11 MAC
 Suppose an 802.11b station is configured  to always reserve the channelwith the RTS/CTS sequence. Suppose this station suddenly wants to transmitt 1000 bytes of data, and all other stations are idle at this time. As a function of SIFS and DIFS, and ignoring the propagation delay and assuming no bit errors, calculate the time required to transmit the frame and receive the acknowledgement.

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**

* 1000 bytes of data
* frame without data 32 bits
* time to transmit a control frame is -> 256/11e6 = 23 microsecs
* time required to transmit the data -> 8256/11e6 = 751microsecs:
	=  DIFS + RTS + SIFS + CTS + SIFS + FRAME + SIFS + ACK
	= DIFS + 3 SIFS + (3 * 23 + 751)microsecs = **DIFS + 3 SIFS + 820 microsecs**
	
##### 3. Encryption keys
Suppose N people wan to communicate with each of N-1 other people using symmetric key encryption. All communication between any two people, i and j, is visible to all other people in this group of N, and no other person in in this group should be able to decode their communication.

1. How many keys are required in the system as a whole?   
2. Now suppose that public key encryption is used. How many keys are required in this case? 

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**
	1. each pair must share a symmetric key by using this equation -> N(N-1)/2
	2. Public and private keys must be shared for this. -> 2N
		
##### 4. IP mobility
In the scenario above, suppose Mobile IPv4 is used, and  the home network for mobile MH is E (subnet address 111.112.113.0/24). There MH is assigned with a static IP address 111.112.113.44. At some point in time the MH moves to a foreign network A (subnet address 130.237.42.0/28). In the foreign network, MH has registered with its home agent (HA) located at router R6 via foreign agent (FA) co-located with the mobile host. Answer the following questions.

1. Assign a CoA IP address for MH in the foreign network given that there are already 11 hosts with addresses 3 through 13 (in the host part) connected to this network. Routers connected to network A are assigned with addresses having 1 and 14 in the host part.
2. The correspondent host CH sets up a two-way communication session with MH. Which destination address will be used in all IP packets generated by CH?
3. Which source address will be used in IP packets generated by MH when tunneling is used?

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**


##### 5. Public key encryption 
Using RSA, choose p=3 and q=11, and encode the word "hello". Choose e=9.  What is the resulting codeword? The correct answer gives you 10 points, the incorrect one -10 points, the "I am not sure" gives you 0.

Verify yourself by decrypting the resulting codeword.

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**
p=3
q=11
e=9
n = p * q = 33

(p - 1)(q - 1) = 20 "find a number to be divided by 20"
d =9
e*d = 81 - 1 -> 80 can be devided by 20

abecedario por numeros
a b c d e f g h i j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  s  t  u  v  w  x  y  z
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

encryption
| letter | m   | m^e   | ciphertext = m^e mod n   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| h   | 8   | 8^33  | 29 |
| e   | 5   | 5^33  | 20 |
| l   | 12  | 12^33 | 12 |
| l   | 12  | 12^33 | 12 |
| 0   | 15  | 15^33 | 3  |

decrypting
| ciphertext | ciphertext^d   | m = ciphertext^d mod n   | letter  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 29  | 29^9   | 8  | h |
| 20  | 20^9   | 5  | e |
| 12  | 12^9   | 12 | l |
| 12  | 12^9   | 12 | l |
| 3   | 3^9    | 15 | o |

##### 5. RTP 
Consider RTP session consisting of four users, all of which are sending and receiving RTP packetsinto the same multicast address. Each user sends video at 100 kb/s. Answer the following questions. The correct answert gives you 5 points, the incorrect one -5 points the "I am not sure" gives you 0 points. 

1. To what rate RTCP will limit its traffic?
2. How much of RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular receiver?
3. How much of RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular sender?

**ANSWERS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**

1. RTCP will limit its traffic:
	* Session bandwidth 4*100kbps = 400 kbps
	* RTCP limits its traffic to 5% of the session bandwidth
	* then (0.05 * 400) is the rate that RTCP will limit its traffic.
		= 20 kbps 
2. RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular receiver:
	* Each user is both sender & receiver where each one gets **20kbps** for RTCP packets as calculated
	* protocol gives 25% to the sender
		= 20 * 0.25
		= 5 kbps
3. RTCP bandwidth will be allocated to a particular sender:
	* protocol gives 75% to the receiver
		= 20 * 0.75
		= 25 kbps
	* one sender then will remain R = 3 users as receivers
		= 15 kbps / 3 -> 5 kbps for receivers

##### 6. True or False 

1.	**[FALSE]** Ethernet and 802.11 use the same frame structure			
2.	**[FALSE]** Bluetooth devices may interfere with WiFi networks			
3.	**[TRUE]** WiFi is a narrowband technology			
4.	**[FALSE]** Before 802.11 station transmits a data frame, it must first send an RTS frame and receive a corresponding CTS frame			
5.	**[TRUE]** The physical layer of both WLAN and 3G technologies use CDMA technique.			
6.	**[TRUE]** RTS/CTS mechanism reduces the useful throughput in a wireless network.			
7.	**[FALSE]** As a mobile node gets farther and farther away from a base station, the base station could take two actions to minimize the loss probability of a transmitted frame: reduce the transmission power and increase the transmission rate.			
8.	**[FALSE]** The MAC protocol for WiFi networks is based on CSMA/CD technique.			
9.	**[TRUE]** In the infrastructure mode of two WIFI enabled computers may communicate directly with each other if they are located in the common communication range.			
10.	**[TRUE]** If stored video is streamed directly from a Web server to a media player then the application is using TCP as the underlying transport protocol			
11.	**[-]** In differentiated services, while per-hop behavior defines differences in performance amongst classes, it does not mandate any particular mechanism for achieving these performances.			
12.	**[TRUE]** RSVP is a protocol for signaling quality requirements of media sessions to the intermediate routers			
13.	**[FALSE]** Consider sending a stream of packets from Host A to Host B using IPsec. Typically a new SA will be established for each packet sent in the stream.			
14.	**[FALSE]** Suppose certifier.com creates a certificate fro foo.com. Typically the entire certificate would be encrypted with certifier.com's public key.			
15.	**[TRUE]** Digitally signing an e-mail means encrypting its entire content with the private key of the sender
